Key Terms 
active partition The partition searched for an operating system after the MBR/GPT. 
boot loader 
A program used to load an operating system. 
chkconfig command 
A command that can be used to configure UNIX SysV daemon startup by runlevel. 
Compiz Fusion 
A window manager that is often used alongside the KDE and GNOME desktops to provide advanced graphical effects.
daemon 
A Linux system process that provides a system service. 
desktop environment 
The software that works with a window manager to provide a standard GUI environment that uses standard programs and development tools. 
ELILO 
A boot loader used with computers that support Intel Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI) technology. 
GNOME Display Manager (gdm) 
A program that provides a graphical login screen. 
GNU Object Model Environment (GNOME) 
The default desktop environment in Fedora Linux; it was created in 1997. GRand Unified Bootloader (GRUB) 
A boot loader used to boot a variety of different operating systems (including Linux) on a variety of different hardware platforms. 
GRand Unified Bootloader version 2 (GRUB2) 
An enhanced version of the GRUB boot loader. It is the most common boot loader used on modern Linux systems. 
grub-install command 
The command used to install the GRUB boot loader. 
grub2-install command 
The command used to install the GRUB2 boot loader. 
grub2-mkconfig command 
The command used to build the GRUB2 configuration file from entries within the /etc/default/grub file and /etc/grub.d directory. 
grubby command 
A command that can be used to configure the LILO, GRUB and GRUB2 boot loaders. 
GRUB root partition 
The partition containing the second stage of the GRUB boot loader and the GRUB configuration file. 
GTK+ toolkit 
A development toolkit for C programming; it is used in the GNOME desktop and the GNU Image Manipulation Program (GIMP). 
init command 
A UNIX SysV command used to change the operating system from one runlevel to another. 
initialize (init) daemon 
The first process started by the Linux kernel; it is responsible for starting and stopping other daemons. 
initstate See runlevel. 
K Desktop Environment (KDE) 
A desktop environment created by Matthias Ettrich in 1996. 
KDE Display Manager (kdm) 
A graphical login screen for users that resembles the KDE desktop.
K Window Manager (kwin) 
The window manager that works under the KDE Desktop Environment. 
lilo command 
The command used to reinstall the LILO boot loader based on the configuration information in /etc/lilo.conf. 
Linux Loader (LILO) 
A common boot loader used on legacy Linux systems. 
multi boot 
A configuration in which two or more operating systems exist on the hard disk of a computer; the boot loader allows the user to choose which operating system to load at boot time. 
mutter window manager 
The default window manager for the GNOME Desktop Environment in Fedora 13. 
Power On Self Test (POST) 
An initial series of tests run when a computer is powered on to ensure that hardware components are functional.
Qt toolkit 
The software toolkit used with the K Desktop Environment. 
restart command 
A command that can be used to manually restart an upstart daemon. runlevel A UNIX SysV 
term that defines a certain type and number of daemons on a Linux system. 
runlevel command 
The command used to display the current and most recent (previous) runlevel. 
runtime configuration (rc) 
scripts Scripts that are used during the system initialization process to start daemons and provide system functionality. 
service command 
A command that can be used to manually start, stop, and restart UNIX SysV daemons. 
service unit A Systemd 
term that is used to describe a daemon. 
start command 
A command that can be used to manually start an upstart daemon. 
stop command 
A command that can be used to manually stop an upstart daemon. 
systemctl command 
A command that can be used to manually start, stop and restart Systemd daemons, as well as configure Systemd daemon startup during the system initialization process. 
system-config-keyboard command 
A command used on Fedora Linux systems to configure a keyboard for use by X Windows. 
Systemd A relatively new software framework used on Linux systems that provides a system initialization process and system management functions. 
system initialization process 
The process that executes the daemons that provide for system services during boot time and bring the system to a usable state. 
target See target unit. 
target unit 
A Systemd term that is used to describe the number and type of daemons running on a Linux system. It is functionally equivalent to the UNIX SysV term runlevel. 
telinit command 
A UNIX SysV command used to change the operating system from one runlevel to another. 
update-rc.d command 
A command that can be used to configure UNIX SysV daemon startup by runlevel on Ubuntu Linux systems. 
upstart 
A recent version of the UNIX SysV system initialization process used on modern Linux distributions.
windows
UNIX SysV A UNIX standard that is used to provide the structure of the system initialization process on Linux systems. 
window manager 
The GUI component that is responsible for determining the appearance of the windows drawn on the screen by X Windows. 
X client 
The component of X Windows that requests graphics to be drawn from the X server and displays them on the terminal screen. 
X Display Manager (xdm) 
A graphical login screen. 
XFree86 
A common implementation of X Windows used in Linux distributions. X.org 
 
 